churches America's favorite place for
redemption and six favorite place for
chicken churches are a cornerstone of
American life there are roughly 350
thousand congregations in the United
States and many of them do great work
feeding the hungry clothing the poor but
this is not a story about them this is
about the churches who exploit people's
faith for monetary gain and when I say
that you probably think of 1980s
televangelists like this guy I'm just
getting into a prophetic vein mamama
called solo the bass a time man that the
king Devine did there was someone with
an odd digestive tract problems quickly
called man that Cassata we've seen
midgets grow we've seen arms and legs
that start going because the grow cells
that stop man that about sutta
make this stuff up wait please you can't
say I don't make this stuff up just five
seconds after you said the words manda
casaba Sangha that man is Robert Tilton
and though he like many televangelist
was caught up in an exposé a decades ago
he never really went away healing going
to those knees arthritis door in the
name of Jesus tumors go in the name of
Jesus that one calling with lupus lupus
youth foul devil you bow to the name of
Jesus lupus you bow to the name of Jesus
you go up in Jesus name
lupus you complicated and not especially
easy to describe malady you go lupus
infectious with your foul lupus nurse
you go now though you may not be aware
of it televangelism
is still thriving in this country and
Robert Tilton it's just a very small
part of it there are several large media
networks devoted to televangelism
including Trinity inspiration ministries
and Daystar and the preachers that
appear on them can have incredible
lifestyles just earlier this year a man
named creflo dollar got people's
attention with a bold request pastor
Creflo Dollar of the world changers
church international facing harsh
criticism after starting a fundraising
campaign to buy this 65 million dollar
luxury private jet
I believe gone for 65 million dollar
franc
you cannot stop me from dreaming it's
not how you ask for 65 million dollars
it's what you scream at your father when
he tells you you'll never be a Broadway
dancer I couldn't do it dad I've got the
music hit me but but here's the thing
creflo dollar wanting a private jet is
not remotely unusual there is a pattern
of preachers wanting high-end airplanes
and when they get them they're not
always particularly humble about it I
had enough money to buy a beautiful
Cessna Citation jet cash and since
there's so much jealousy in this room
tonight that I can feel over this a few
weeks later I bought another one worth
three times what that one was
cash act happy over my blessing folks I
bought a jet cash I bought a bigger jet
cash the haters act happy for me
that's that's not a sermon it's the
first draft of a Rick Ross single now
now creatures claim these planes are
vital tools look at Kenneth Copeland who
along with his wife Gloria are among the
most successful TV evangelists a few
years back he asked his followers to
help buy a 20 million dollar jets
promising it would only be used for
church business but a local news crew
did some digging and what they found
will probably not surprise you it was a
news 8 investigation last February which
first raised questions about Copeland's
apparently personal use of his new
church jack this is a preaching machine
most notably for a ski trip to Colorado
and visits to an exotic game ranch in
South Texas
here's Copeland and his son John proudly
posing with a pair of axis deer
indigenous to India and Sri Lanka holy
this guy's like a psychotic reverse
Noah two by two male and female came to
Kenneth Copeland and he just shot them
right between the eyes now
Copeland's ministry will tell you that
he reimburses the church for trips like
that but that still means he has private
jets reimbursement money and yet despite
that personal wealth people still send
Kenneth Copeland creflo dollar and that
asshole with two planes lots and lots of
money and that's partly because they
preach something called the prosperity
gospel which argues that wealth is a
sign of God's favor and donations will
result in wealth coming back to you that
idea sometimes takes the form of seed
faith the notion that donations are
seeds that you will one day get to
harvest let me show you that in action
the size of your seed will determine the
size of your harvest I don't understand
why but there's something happens at a
level where people step in to faith and
give a thousand dollars that don't
happen at other levels you're going to
have a breakthrough through this two
hundred and seventy three dollar seed
all you've got is a thousand dollars
listen that's not enough money anyway to
buy the house you're trying to give him
the apartment you just want to buy the
house that's not enough money anyway you
get to that phone and you put that seed
in the ground and watch God work it out
the argument is so your money in the
ground and you will reap returns
multiple times over except as an
investment you'd be better off burying
your money in the actual ground because
that leaves that way there is a chance
your dog may dig it up and give it back
to you one day good boy but but it can
get even more predatory because if say
you don't have a thousand dollars or
perhaps have significant credit card
debts seed faith can still work for you
I have a feeling that somebody there
wants a credit card debt why
doubt that if you'll use your faith as
you so as you sold the thousand on a
credit card as you use your faith as you
use your faith God's gonna wipe out your
credit card indebtedness think about
that that is the equivalent of saying
the key to you losing weight lies at the
bottom of this giant Costco bulk bag of
peanut butter M&Ms go find it it's
definitely down there and all of this
all of this would be amusing if the
targets of these messages were not often
vulnerable people like Bonnie Parker she
did not seek medical treatment for
cancer instead choosing to so money into
Kenneth Copeland's church and I'll let
her daughter pick it up from there I
started finding notebooks along her she
passed away she believed and I know she
believed because it's in the network's
they've she sowed enough seen which was
money the the greater amount of seed
that you sow according to them the
better chance you have the better chance
you have of getting healed at this point
I think it's clear that seed faith is
the most disgusting seed based concept
since whatever-the-fuck chia seed
pudding is Bonnie Parker gave thousands
of dollars to the Copeland's Church
because she believed it was her best
chance of beating cancer and you might
think well that's crazy but it's not an
unreasonable interpretation of the
Copeland's preachings Gloria Copeland
sells numerous products on healing
through faith and has been skeptical in
the past about going to the doctor we
know what's wrong with you you've got
cancer the bad news is we don't know
what to do about it except give you some
poison that'll make you sicker now which
do you want to do you want to do that or
you want to sit here on Saturday morning
hear the word of God let faith come into
your heart and be
it's pretty clear that woman cannot hear
the Word of God because if she could I'm
pretty sure he'd be shouting you
Gloria
not only is everything you've seen so
far legal but the money people donate in
response to it is tax-free because if
you're registered as a religious
nonprofit or especially a church you are
given broad exemptions over taxation and
regulation the IRS in fact produced a
scintillating video instructing its
agents how to treat churches and it
contains a phrase that you would not
normally associate with the agency hello
and welcome to churches and religious
organizations do's and don'ts four
reasons as old as the United States the
tax laws and regulations that govern
churches and religious organizations are
purposely broad and sometimes a little
vague a little vague oh they are under
selling that's because the films of
Christopher Nolan are a little vague a
text from your mom reading please call
not emergency but please call very
important don't worry that's a little
vague the IRS regulations are close to
meaningless according to their tax codes
not only is the term Church not
specifically defined they make no
attempts to evaluate whether the content
of a doctrine is religious provided the
beliefs are truly held and are not
illegal but truly held beliefs that are
not illegal is almost every belief bros
before hos that could be a religion red
vines are better than Twizzlers that
could be a religion if you believe the
best movie ever made is lady in the
water then your name is M night
Shyamalan but congratulations mr.
Shyamalan that belief could be a
religion and being designated a church
confers all sorts of benefits like the
parsonage allowance which allows the
Copeland's to live in a 6.3 million
dollar house tax-exempt this is their
house that is a parsonage which only
makes sense if by parsonage they mean
house that looks like it cost the net
worth of Big Bang Theory's Jim Parsons
we actually asked the IRS how many
churches they've audited in recent years
and they did one in 2014 and just two in
2013 the odds of a church getting
audited are basically the same as Gloria
Copeland curing your cancer and
when we can operate with the thing when
you can operate with so little oversight
it is amazing what you are able to do
look at Robert Tilton if you ever send
him a donation you cannot imagine what
happens and luckily you don't have to
imagine because and we should probably
come clean here we have been involved in
a correspondence with Robert Tilton
Church for the last seven months to try
and find out what he tells people so
settle in because this gets incredible
back in January I've sent him $20 and a
letter asking to be added to his mailing
list within two weeks he sent me a
letter back thanking me for my donation
and claiming I believe that God has
supernaturally brought us together and
supernatural is a bit of a stretch I saw
him on television and I sent him some
money
he wasn't my dead lover who came back to
help me with some pottery but soon
afterwards he sent me a second letter
and inside there was a one dollar bill
which was exciting until I saw the
inscription instructing me to send it
back to him
with your best proof God tithes or
offering that's right I had to send the
one dollar back with an additional
recommended offering of 37 dollars which
I did so at this point were just two
letters in and already it's like having
a pen pal who's in deep with some loan
sharks this correspondence continued
back and forth like this until March
when he sent me three small packets of
colored oil that I was instructed to
pour on letters and send back to him by
specific dates along with more money so
I did that and in April I got a letter
in a manila envelope with a message
check enclosed and I thought fantastic
I've seeded and I've seeded and have
seeded here comes my harvest then I open
it and this is true it was a check for
five dollars from me made out to pasture
Tilton's Church
this went on for seven more letters and
then he sent me a piece of fabric in the
shape of some mountains I assumed at
this point I'd somehow reach to the
mountain level and surprise surprise he
asked me to send those mountains back to
him with some more money again so I did
and then he sent me another letter with
another single dollar bill inside he
told me to put that dollar bill in my
Bible for one night and then send it
back the next day with 49 more dollars
so that he can have it blessed with oil
and sends me a one dollar bill back that
has been blessed adding I must warn you
not to rob God with your tithes and
offerings and then for emphasis
I can't urge you enough do not let this
one dollar bill stay in your house and
you know what I kept that one dollar
bill because him but that did not
stop him the letters kept on coming I
received another oil package more prayer
cloths and even and this is true an
outline of his foot which I was asked to
trace my foot on and mail back to him
with more money so as of tonight I have
sent him three hundred and nineteen
dollars and received 26 letters that's
almost one a week and again this is all
hilarious
until you imagine these letters being
sent to someone who cannot afford what
he's asking for so at this point I was
getting pretty angry and looking for a
sign of what to do so I watched a little
more Robert Tilton and the most amazing
thing happened there's a person watching
me and you've been very frustrated with
your purpose in life that might be me
Bob because I'm extremely frustrated
right now
as it seems my purpose in the last seven
months has been to send you money
through the mail
so so I will ask what's that message
that you have for me that's so strong
just then just then I had a word of
knowledge for someone that's really been
seeking God you have for a particular
purpose or a decision in your life and
that is when I realized the message
Robert Tilton was sending me was that I
should set up my own church to test the
legal and financial limits of what
religious entities is what we have done
we filed paperwork last week
establishing a church called Our Lady of
Perpetual exemption and it was
disturbingly easy to make sure we did
this correctly we had this actual tax
lawyer walk us through the process
now while the IRS does not have a
definition of a church they do have a
14-point test as a guideline for
churches but not only do you not have to
meet all fourteen points we'd already
met some of them by accident
for instance you need an established
place of worship but we meet every
Sunday in this studio in New York that
genuinely counts our lawyer also advises
our church needed to be a distinct legal
entity so we've registered our church as
a nonprofit corporation in Texas a
state's I do not live in have never
lived in but which is somehow completely
fine for us to incorporate a church in
now the IRS is guidelines suggest you
need a creed and form of worship but
I'll always suggest if we could fulfill
the worship requirements by merely
leading everyone in some specific ritual
such as having congregants silently
meditate on the nature of fraudulent
churches so let us do exactly that and
bow our heads in silent contemplation
and lo another box was ticked
finally according to our attorney the
best case for church membership will be
made by those individuals who are
actually present in the live studio
audience who will profess belief in the
church's Creed so what do you say live
studio audience
do you profess your belief let's go to
church
brothers and sisters welcome to Our Lady
of Perpetual exemption
I am your mega Reverend sisters your
mega Reverend and CEO John Oliver and
can I tell you I am so blessed tonight
so blessed to be joined by my radiant
wife wonder Joe Oliver please welcome
and praise be to all of you watching us
tonight or joining us online at
www.petland.com
but most of all praise be to the IRS
that was permissive of government
agencies wonder Joe I have heard the
word of prophecy hallelujah what did it
say my job I'll tell you I'll tell you
my Wanda it says the viewers at home
must plant a seed yes preferably in the
form of cash although we do take checks
it can be five dollars it can be ten
dollars it can be 77 dollars we need you
to so your biggest seed that's money
that's right Wanda please do not send us
actual see please send us your actual
money to this address at the bottom of
your screen if you do this and this is
real great things will happen to you and
that's apparently something I'm allowed
to say praise legal praise our tax
attorney praise loopholes and all their
blessed loopiness let me talk to the
brothers and sisters at home do you have
debt debt begone dude do you have lupus
a-team and plague touch touch your hand
to the screen right now and we shall
cure it touch your hand to the screen
right now curse you curse you demon
lupus big devil us no more pursue new
puts you you probably didn't even know
that you had lupus
[Applause]
it's a miracle it's a miracle - do not
delay call this actual number right now
1 800 because amazingly all of this is
this is all legal call this toll-free
number and plant your seat plant it deep
in him ok plant your seed in his mouth
keep it together wonder keep it together
based on this number so you seed and ye
shall prosper what wonder wondered to
feel the spirit on your screen right now
call this number
[Music]
we gets not truly we have witnessed a
miracle tonight
you